===
date: February 6, 2020
title: Downtime
time: 3:07 AM
===
This is probably the most blog-post like post I've written in a long while. I'm just going to ramble about how things have been and hopefully bring up some observations and topics for future posts. It's been a long few weeks and although in hindsight not much has happened, it honestly does feel like things have changed.

But you probably already know that things are always changing.

So what's new? I just took a midterm this morning (Stochastic Processes, went pretty smoothly). I have an interview tomorrow morning for a data analytics internship. I've been making clothes on the side and trying to find the courage to make an Instagram post on my two-year-old brand account. I'm learning a bit about stocks thanks to my Mathematical Finance class. I bought a Microsoft call and made $13. I bought another Microsoft call and lost $6. Two more midterms next week. Trying to learn After Effects, which is now 5 weeks overdue. Hoping to find the time to finish reading this book about prayer. Thinking of getting better at music and art, although time is really against me on that one.

Whew.

It's hard these days to get a little downtime for myself. And that doesn't even mean time to write one of these things. I mean straight up time for me to do nothing. I've been so busy these past couple of weeks.

It doesn't even stop, though. Got a couple more midterms next week, nonstop homework assignments, and I have to familiarize myself with typical industry standard data science tools for my interview tomorrow at 2:30 PM.

Looks like there's not much room today to ponder on stuff. Just thought it would be a good time to give a little update on my actual life instead of just my thoughts.

College is pretty tiring. Or maybe that's just how I'm making it for myself.

Either way, there seems to be no time for rest at all.

Always moving forward, always moving up. Always looking for the next thing.

I hope I can live up to that standard.

- Sam
