===
date: October 25, 2025
title: Life Upon The Water
time: 10:49 PM
===
If there exists a post about anxiety to end all posts about anxiety (at least for myself), this is it. I, for one, am tired of listening myself drone on and on about the things that only time and effort can change. But I think I owe it to myself to write down some of the things that I have learned so far.

Anxiety is not good. But for the majority of my life, I have lived under the impression that it was. In fact, I was under the impression that it was inevitable. Things don’t go according to plan, so I have to worry. The worry motivates me to do something about it and change my situation. Situation is fixed by me. Thus, anxiety has helped me to achieve everything that I have achieved thus far and has allowed me to avert numerous crises.

This, of course, is a classic example of correlation vs. causation. It turns out that when 100% of scenarios are met with anxiety, then it seems that anxiety is responsible for 100% of the good (and I suppose I have always ignored the fact where anxiety must be responsible for 100% of the bad as well). I am simply a terribly anxious person that happens to be somewhat successful in certain areas. And at this point in my life, I am not even concerned with the notion that shedding my anxiety will allow me to be more productive or more successful, or help to achieve my goals quicker and go where I want to go in life. I am just tired of being anxious. I’m tired of the dread, the sinking and thrashing feeling that the end is nigh and my life is about to be irreparably damaged. If I never achieve anything ever again in the remainder of my years, but learn to truly give everything up to God, I think that would be a better life than one where I have achieved everything I could ever have wanted but live each day in agony and misery. I cannot sit idly by and watch myself be consumed by fear and worry. I have to find another way to handle things.

Sometimes I wonder where this came from. Am I genetically predisposed to worry? Is this a product of my upbringing, where I was expected to produce nothing but results and told horror stories day after day of “wasted potential” for the most formative years of my life? Possibly a combination of both. But in a way, does it really matter the source? I took it in, adopted it, and now it is so intertwined with me that I do not know how to get rid of it. I have to tell myself it’s not my fault. But I’m older now, and I need to clean up after my mistakes, for my own sake, and me who is to come. I know that in another sense, it does matter where it came from. But that I leave as an exercise for the reader (me) for now.

When I was younger, I viewed life as a long highway with milestones and destinations along the way. Go to a good college, then get a good job, make money, achieve financial stability, make friends, get married, buy a house, have kids. It was easy to compare people’s lives and achievements with this model, and I relished the fact that in many aspects I was ahead of many of my peers. And how I wish that my life had been thrown under the bus a long time ago, so I could see how wrong I was to rely on that information as comfort and identity. I regret the years I wasted thinking that I was always right, and that there was not much truly wrong with me. But better then than now, and better now than later. What can I do but start?

Some time over the past couple of years as I’ve been working in Washington, instead of viewing myself as on that highway, I started getting this sentiment of being adrift. Lost in the middle of an ocean on a little wooden raft, with no land in sight. When you don’t have something on the horizon to look forward to for the next year or so, you start to feel somewhat like this - always waiting, always abiding. It wasn’t a great feeling, and it definitely was my first taste of true patience and perseverance. I didn’t realize it much then, but the uncertainty of it all was slowly but surely taking a toll on me. I was lost in the possibilities and the paths of the future, and I found (and am still finding) that it was hard to truly be in the moment and enjoy my everyday life. All the things that you hear as a child, like “the best things in life are free”, start to take on a different meaning. You start to realize that they indeed are true, and you wish that you had taken them to heart from the very start instead of now when it is far more difficult to change yourself. Still, it was easy to romanticize the life upon the water. It was fun to imagine myself a part of a group of adventurers on their way to discover something magical and wonderful, and I always felt like I could be courageous and steadfast in the midst of the unknown.

But as you probably know, my ideals and philosophy are a far cry from my actual self. If you put me on that raft, I’d be panicking and screaming after a few minutes. In reality, I simply cannot entertain the uncertain and I am not willing to be open to risk. I would forgo all the pleasant surprises in the world if I could simply get what I wanted every time, because I think I know what’s best for myself. I get lost in my plans and schemes involving other people because I think I know what’s best for them, too. I guess that in some ways, I am like a child whose eyes are captivated by every little thing he sees - candy, toys, food, etc. I lack the maturity to be able to not get what I want and not throw a fit. I cannot handle being wrong, and I suppose I cannot handle suffering or failure, either.

What is so wrong with being wrong? Not a single person on this earth has ever been perfect, save one. I suppose at this point it is no longer about the simple fact of being right or wrong, but the belief that wrong decisions will make my life worse. I suppose that somewhere deep down I am afraid that this ocean of life is really merely an ocean, where the wind and waves are random, cold, and uncaring. I have always felt like I need to steer the ship where I want it to go, to rise above the indifference of the elements to make sure that they don’t take me down a path of suffering and misery. But I have no ship. I am on a raft, a pile of sticks tied together. I have no choice but to surrender to the ocean.

There is no power, no intelligence, no plan we can muster to steer the world around and guarantee the life that we want. And yet I still so often feel the adrenaline, the rush that tells me that I have to do something right this second. Right now or everything will be over. If you don’t do this today, what if this happens tomorrow? Now you have to account for that as well. Why not throw in a dozen other scenarios and their logical solutions? If I think about this for hours and hours, for every waking moment, surely I can be prepared for all situations. Surely I can analyze things enough to make what I want come to pass. I am smart. I am capable. I am special. I didn’t realize that this was what I was really telling myself every single time. Now I try to sit back and just try to visualize the uncertainty of it all. I picture something like the decrypting machine in The Imitation Game, or the nebulous wild rune from Arcane. Millions if not trillions or quadrillions or whatever unfathomable number of variables and possible outcomes, not to mention 99.99999% them being completely beyond my control. I cannot force anyone to think a certain way or believe a certain thing. I cannot stop time or teleport or change matter, although all of those things would “solve” being behind schedule on the way to work. I cannot correct some of my past mistakes and their consequences, no matter how hard I try or how much anguish and unrest I put myself through. I realize how silly and naive I was to believe that I could ever be that powerful. There is no fighting a hurricane. There is only surrender and prayer.

I always find myself needing to know something. Needing to find one more piece of information, one more tidbit of knowledge to add to my understanding of the status quo, as if I would be able to make a more informed decision about what to think or what to do next. I would go to great lengths just to try to get some idea of what’s going on - spending hours going down Reddit rabbit holes of similar experiences or having heated “debates” (arguments) with an unwilling and frustrated participant. And while I look back and regret those actions, I don’t really know how to stop. I still catch myself trying to squeeze out every possible detail, going far beyond letting things run their natural course. Perhaps I need to focus more on what I don’t know, on what I can’t change. Does finding out the truth about one thing really ever move the needle at all? The situation still remains just as uncertain, even after collecting all this information. And no one piece of it is worth hurting someone’s feelings or making them feel bad. There is nothing I can do to solve the uncertainty.

If this ocean were truly a mindless force of nature, then indeed there would be much reason for me to fear. Blessings and hardships would be random alike in a meaningless stochastic process. I think I would have to adopt some form of Stoicism and try to embrace and accept the suffering and not let it affect me, all while trying to grow and persevere through. However, given my recent circumstances I now believe that there are a multitude of types of suffering, and the ones above a certain threshold are like a tidal wave or a wrecking ball, leaving you flat on the ground with no room or energy even to begin to contemplate the “right” way to engage with the trials and tribulations. You are simply swept away.

Suffering is a part of life and is inevitable - that at least must be accepted. No one makes it through life unscathed. But if I believe in a God that created and orchestrates the cosmos, then this ocean is much more than a series of fortunate or unfortunate events. It is a force that continually works for my good regardless of whether I understand it or not. So instead of surrendering to the suffering, I must surrender to Him who is above all, who hears me and is with me through the fire, who has made a promise to see me through to the very end. This doesn’t necessarily mean that I am guaranteed that the suffering will end, or that I will eventually get the good thing that I want. But it does mean that He is with me through it all, and that He wants us to lean on Him in this life. I don’t have all the answers about why suffering exists in the first place, or how free will and God’s goodness intersect. But I believe in a force of pure good and pure love, and as long as I believe that I will continue to believe it gives me strength to ride the waves, no matter how tall they may be. And that is not to say that I am anywhere near that point - my current hope is in my perseverance of leaning into that hope, continually practicing and adopting what it means, so that I may not only know about it but really know it in my heart.

I hope, but I don’t really know if things will get better. But if there’s one thing I can do in the meantime, it’s to get used to being on my little raft, staring out into the vast and unknowable ocean. Whatever happens, happens. Some days I tell myself that and smile, but there are still so many days where I feel the fear and panic creeping back in. I have to remind myself there’s nothing to do but sit and watch. And if there’s anything to enjoy, to enjoy it to the fullest. I cannot become the person I want to be overnight, the one that remains calm in the midst of fog and doubt, the one that puts up his fists to face each coming day, knowing that there is something greater at work in and around him. But as has become the ending theme for all of these recent posts, it just takes time and the right direction. A little more joy, a little more peace, a little more prayer and quiet time. A little practice sitting still and realizing that the uncertainty itself can be separated from the pain that it may bring, and that it is in itself something to marvel at, a representation of just how detailed and powerful our God is. A little bit of failure, a little bit of panic, some inevitable wrong decisions. A little bit of grace for the me that is still trying to change.

Anxiety, my old friend. I am sure I will see you again and again over the years, but I will do my best to meet you with compassion each time. You tried your best; you did what you thought was right. But it’s time to go now. It’s time to let go. I need you to rest. Someone else has got this under control.