===
date: August 23, 2025
title: All The Things That Could Be Better
time: 3:32 PM
===
Why am I writing this? Perhaps it’s because I feel like it’s something I have to do, another project that may give me the fulfillment or satisfaction that I’ve been searching for all this time. Perhaps I believe that by writing a magnum opus story, I can finally find out why I have been so unhappy and melancholy, and free up myself and my thoughts to make way for a bright and happy future.

So maybe I don’t write about my thoughts. What are my thoughts, anyways? Just a persistent feeling of melancholy, as if I’m pining for something in the past, or in the future. What exactly? I’m not sure. If I had to describe it, it is as if I’m not where I’m supposed to be and a general sense of dissatisfaction with the way things are. Is it because things were better before, and I have now moved past and lost the things that made my life good? Or is it because I feel like I have not yet found anything that I can be satisfied with, and thus must withhold my contentness for the day that I finally do?

Do I know the answer? Partially. I want to say that the answer is just to learn to be grateful for what I have and realize that the uncertainty for the future has to be met with excitement and appreciation for the freedom. That nothing really means anything, and thus everything can mean something. That I can work my way up the corporate ladder or build something amazing and phenomenal that reaches and is loved by millions and millions of people, or I could go to the grocery store, purchase some ingredients, and make a dish for myself, perhaps something I’ve never made before. That both of these have value. Not that they are equal in value or that I would not prefer one over the other, but that they both have value, and I should not feel bad or unsatisfied with doing either of them.

Because suppose that I have some theoretical notion of what would make me satisfied. The perfect wife, the perfect job, the perfect commute, environment, hobbies, friends, and all of the above. If only I found out that I had, unbeknownst to me, an intense passion for teaching high school, or welding, or underwater basket weaving, or something of that sort, then I would begin to enjoy my days and life would be all smiles and cheer. Even if that were true, suppose I kept comparing everything in my life to things that I could have instead. Instead of being a software engineer, I could be teaching. Instead of living in DC, I could be in New York, or Los Angeles, or somewhere that has more things that make me happy. Instead of having been naive and self-absorbed, maybe I could have been more proactive about working on myself. Instead of being alone, maybe I could be happier with someone right now, even though I am not ready at all and would only be preparing myself for disaster. 

Because if there is a perfect thing, there must be a second-best thing, something that shares a majority of traits and aspects but is not quite that thing. And thus there must be a third-best thing, and a fourth-best thing, and so on and so forth, and anyone would be a fool to say that any of these runner-up things have no value and are nothing compared to the first place holder. So why bother always trying to think about how things could be better? Why not just love something for what it is?

And what of the people who have no freedom to explore everything? Those who have been dealt a bad hand? Are they doomed to be unsatisfied and unhappy? That doesn’t seem quite right. Nor does it seem real, either - I would imagine that you could find many individuals who are very content with simple lives and can appreciate what they have. Surely contentment does not come entirely from external factors, and thus if I am missing the ball this badly it must be something within me that is to blame. I cannot keep looking around for something to make me happy. I have to be happy.

Which is where I am stuck, and why I say that I only partially know the answer. How can I just be happy? I can wax poetic all day with logic about how everything has value and it’s important to appreciate the little things in life, but the truth is that there is just so much in the way. My upbringing, my coping mechanisms, my insecurities - I am not battling the circumstances of my life more than I am battling myself and the person I have become.

In some sense, I do know what to do next. I have to practice. I cannot become happy in general without first being happy for one minute, fully lost in the present. Then one hour, and one day, then one week, one month. And it’ll be hard. There will be days and weeks where I feel lost and lonely and I will feel like no progress has been made, but I'll have to convince myself that things are changing and that I am becoming happier. I know it will too often seem so easy to just give up and say that it’s a lost cause and not have to struggle through the pain of growing and striving, but I need this. I need to be better for myself, so I can be better for others. So I can become who I was meant to become.

Things take time. The time will pass anyways. No matter if it’s trying to be happier, or more gentle, or getting better at guitar, writing a novel with the themes of my life, I have to first accept that it will take time, and that it won’t come easy. But it will be worth it. I promise. All you have to do is keep going. And you may not get to where you want to be as fast as you want it to happen. You probably won’t. But you will get better. I promise.