===
date: August 24, 2025
title: All The Things I Should Have Been
time: 5:23 PM
===
I spent a large part of my Saturday rewriting some of the code for this website so that it’s much easier for me to make new posts, which I think was time well spent. In the process, I decided it would be a good time to read through all my posts from the past 7 years. I was surprised to see so many of the same themes that I think about and write about today, even back when I was just transitioning from high school to college. Anxiety, pride, comparison, progress, success, failure, and everything that continues to occupy my subconscious.

I found statements and conclusions that I thought I had only come to recently, things that should have changed the way I lived my life but somehow never did:

<i>August 1, 2018 - "It's okay to be a fan of other people. The success of others do not diminish my own accomplishments, and the abilities of others do not detract from mine."</i>

<i>August 7, 2018 - "Simply put, the situation is already out of my control at this point, and any further worrying will just bring me unnecessary stress."</i>

<i>August 22, 2018 - "I will try my best to be thankful for the progress that I have achieved thus far, and not be frustrated with what I haven't achieved. No more fear of failing. I've failed so many times already, so what's another addition to the pile? Nothing. It means nothing to me."</i>

<i>April 20, 2020 - "There will never be anything truly new on Earth, and no one is able to fulfill their life purpose through the things achievable in this world… Whether I am successful or not, I die all the same."</i>

<i>June 8, 2020 - "Go for the things you know and trust to be the source of everything else. Skill. Kindness. Love. Place your trust in the things you know will always be true."</i>

<i>August 7, 2020 - "How much could my future change if I just did this and that? I just can't wait to see the results of my actions. I have to know for sure whether the practice that I do today or the work and effort I put in for these months is actually going to have a lasting result or finished product in the future."</i>

At first, I felt a wave a despair wash over me. The thought that came upon me was that I had been down this path many times before, and I was doomed to repeat the cycle of identifying my flaws, telling myself to change, and not changing. It’s been 7 years since I had written that I wanted to stop comparing myself, stop worrying about things out of my control, and stop being so afraid of failure. 5 years since I had written that I should not lose myself in infinite goals and achievements or live a life hinging upon expected futures. And yet today, I still do all of those things and more. I’ve uncovered even more areas of my life that desperately need improvement, and the ones that have been around this whole time - well, it certainly seems like they will stick around forever.

As I go through this period of grief, I come face to face with these old demons. The anxiety is crippling, almost paralyzing, some days. I cannot stop myself from thrashing around, desperately trying to learn more, to try to understand more, to plan more, for a situation that ultimately is no longer in my control at all. I try to solve myself, the person I was, the things that I did, the things that I said. <i>This can’t be</i>, I think. <i>I can’t be.</i> The ego rears its ugly head. I am not who I thought I was, and it is as if my reality is tearing apart. The entire machine is failing to compute. And just when it seems like there is nothing possibly worse to do but slow down and try to pick up the pieces, the hammer of self-criticism, of impatience and comparison, comes crashing down. <i>Why couldn’t you be better? Why aren’t you better now? What about other people; how are they doing? Are they down in the dumps like I am, or am I alone? When will things be okay again? Not now? I’ll check back in 5 minutes. I’ll check back tomorrow, and next week, and every waking moment until you’re good enough.</i>

Good enough for what? Even if I don’t compare myself to others, I continue to battle myself. I spend so much of my time thinking about whether or not I’m improving enough on these weaknesses of mine. I feel like I need to be able to prove it. I need to be able to prove to myself that I am better than I was yesterday, that I’m happier, more satisfied, more mature. If only I could open my stats sheet like a video game character, and see that "Empathy" went from a 1 to a 2. At least then I’d know that I’m on the right track, that I have hope. This, too, is anxiety. I need assurance that things are getting better, otherwise how can I live? How can I be happy? But there is no such certainty. To progress, there can only be trust, and moreover there needs to be trust. And I suppose I have never been able to trust myself long enough to to let things truly change.

As I write these thoughts, I think of myself all those years ago. I want to tell him I’m sorry, that so much has happened and I couldn’t handle it all - the stress of working in a toxic work environment, the unfamiliarity and loneliness of post-grad life in a new city, the anxiety of watching my relationship go in a completely different direction than I had wanted. Would he understand? I am almost certain he wouldn’t. Back then, I was so preoccupied with making progress, with getting better at hobbies and skills so that I could be great and achieve something great. Most of these posts were written from that angle, from trying to develop a more positive, easygoing attitude so that I could get further along on my journey. <i>Such naiveté</i>, I would think to myself if I saw him today. <i>You have no idea how hard it gets - how much more there is to life.</i> It’s true. He doesn’t. And how could I blame him? What other way was there for him to know, other than to go through the process of becoming me?

When I’m 30, will I look back on myself today and think the same? I hope not. Or maybe I hope I do. I wouldn’t have wanted to stay the same way I was when I was 20.

And yet I wrote all of these things as if I knew everything. It’s not as if they aren’t true - I think my logic has always been fairly sound. I read all of these posts (okay, some of the earlier ones are kind of silly), and the statements still make sense to me. Some of them even speak to me in new ways. But talk, while able to be timeless and constant, really is cheap. I had acted as if I could spend a few hours, like I am doing now, applying some critical thinking and collecting my thoughts into prose, and suddenly solve a fundamental problem of mine, as if I was merely flipping a light switch. Even the "solution" to this very concept was not immune - there are some posts that talk about needing to have patience and perseverance to achieve these goals, and yet I am neither patient nor persevering. I wrote these truths, read them, thought them, and it seemed like nothing, at least nothing significant, has changed about me regarding these things at all.

But now I see (at least I think I see). The logic is sound, but I am not. I’ve quite literally reached my wit’s end, and it’s me. Like I said, I am not who I thought I was - perfectly logical, incorruptible, with a good heart. I am logical, and I try to do what is right. But I am also human, a creature of habit, and so woefully short-sighted and narrow-minded. I am neither the one-dimensional straight arrow that I believed myself to be, nor the well-rounded sage that I now believe I want to be. I don’t think I can describe who I really am. Perhaps once I believed that I could turn myself into a profile, an essay, a book, something that can analyzed and solved, something to make perfect and prove to be perfect. Maybe that’d be enough to get a glimpse, to put together a picture of what I’m like. But only I really know the entire me, and only I will ever know. Only I can make myself open to change. 

For the longest time, I thought there was a single most important question to analyze and answer.

<i>Why are you the way that you are?</i>

I thought that it was necessary to figure out every little detail of my flaws, where they came from, and their logical solutions. That every problem I had could be worked out like a math problem. <i>Now I see the answer,</i> I would think. <i>Now I know how I can be better.</i> At times, this was easy - at other times, like pulling teeth. Examining my productivity habits because I wanted to be better at music was not exactly a very high-stakes analysis. Looking back into the past and coming to terms with fatal flaws that have affected my ability to be happy and every relationship I have with another person - somewhat more difficult. But even more difficult is learning after all this time that realizing your shortcomings is, while absolutely necessary, only the easy part.

A little analogy I’ve been thinking of recently, as I’ve been trying to grapple with improving my emotional intelligence: trying to change my behavior and my mindset by meditating on truth and wisdom, like I have been doing for basically my entire life, is like trying to fly an F/A-18 after reading the flight manual. I can study and memorize the entire book: every part, every maneuver, every little fact about that aircraft. I can think about it day and night and live and breathe the knowledge and the truth. But I wouldn’t be a pilot. I would never even make it off the ground. To make any progress at all, I have to get into the plane. I have to figure out how to lift off, how to turn, how to land, all while I’m actually in the cockpit, controlling the aircraft, feeling the speed and the G-forces. And I am probably going to crash and burn many, many times, but that’s okay. Some test flights will be short and some will be longer. Some of the obstacle course routes will be a walk in the park; others will be more challenging than I could ever imagine. For some flights, I will total the plane, and for some flights, hopefully and by the grace of God, I’ll make it up and back down successfully. And eventually, I will fly. I won't ever be perfect, but I will fly. And this is the only way to fly - to first accept that I cannot.

I love writing, but I know that all of these posts, from the very first ones in 2018 to the most recent ones from the past month, are just part of the manual. Therapy, self-help books, honest conversations with friends - these too, while productive and insightful, are also just parts of the manual. The path to true change cannot be learned or studied. It can only be done - not by me, but by Him who works in me.

I left one quote out from the ones above, one I had written while I was living in San Francisco. I don’t think it needs any additional commentary.

<i>November 27, 2022 - "But I'm still trying. I can change. I want to change. I want to become the person I've been telling you all to be: fearless, humble, enthusiastic, thoughtful, caring, and incorruptible. And although I carry with me a quarter of a lifetime's worth of insecurities and envy, I want to keep moving towards the light. Even if I have to rewrite this post a hundred times, each after another long, difficult stage of life, I want to be the person that doesn't give up on change."</i>