===
date: July 21, 2025
title: The Eternal Climb
time: 3:32 PM
===
Perhaps I'm not meant to reach the top. I need to keep taking steps, every day, until I am no more. I need to gain satisfaction not with where I'm at, but the fact that I am improving, and how far I have come.

<i>"Not that I have already obtained this or am already perfect, but I press on to make it my own, because Christ Jesus has made me his own. Brothers, I do not consider that I have made it my own. But one thing I do: forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies ahead, I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus."</i> - Philippians 3:12-14

I will never be perfect. I will never not make mistakes again. I will never not want anything more. These are the conditions of being human. So why do I strive to be better? Is it just to reach a point where I could confidently say that I wouldn't make the same mistakes again? That I'm capable of supporting someone emotionally and building them up with love? If I knew that things with her would never work out in the future, what would I do? Would I still have the motivation to climb? I'm not sure.

But I am not content with myself. I feel like my pride and my narrowmindedness have not only cost me my relationship, but my happiness and my enjoyment of my own life in general. So in that sense it would make sense to try to improve and get myself to a state where I feel better about my life. However, I foresee an issue there - I think that in the process of trying to examine and analyze whether I am happy or satisfied, I will inevitably feel like I am not. For example, today I have had a decently normal day (aside from my anxiety and sorrow regarding the present situation), but am I satisfied? I have no reason to say that I am not, but I also have no reason to say that I am. I do not know what that means, and I am not really sure if that will ever change. How many others out there feel no particular way about their day-to-day life? Can I really achieve a better mentality? Perhaps using statistics and comparisons to think about this is not appropriate here either.

Do I have a real goal? I have a few in mind - to become more empathetic, more humble, and more gentle. Concretely, I would like to be mindful of what I say and how I react to things so that I do not discourage others or make them feel uneasy. This would come with better understanding of people's emotions and what affects them, as well as patience on my end to give people the benefit of the doubt and assume that I could possibly be narrow-minded somewhere. If I had displayed these traits and been a better source of emotional support, would she have stayed? I guess I am not really sure. I would probably have to have an extended conversation with her about the past and what could have changed. But I'm honestly not sure if that's productive to think about right now.

Additionally, I would like to be less anxious about what happens in my life. I was too focused on trying to make things work out for us and what made sense given the circumstances, but I should have been more accommodating and more flexible. I don't want to be someone who gives pressure and stress to my partner - I want to be able to support them even when it doesn't align with my expectations or convenience. Of course, there should be some balance to this, as I don't want to end up neglected and resentful, but at the moment I feel like I am always prioritizing my needs above others, and trying to find clever ways to solve everyone's problems even if not everyone is comfortable or agrees with it.

But in my mind, I'm logical, and my solutions are based on objective things. Thus it doesn't make sense for someone else to disagree with me as they just have to be convinced and see the logic. However, I think this is where my fatal issue is - I default to assuming that my solution is flawless or the best, when there is really no reason to assume that. I only assume that because I have been reinforced to believe that:

1. I am smart and smarter than most people, and

2. I am usually right.

Now, regardless of whether or not I have grounds to believe this, or whether or not it is statistically significant, I think that anyone that actually subconsciously believes these statements and lives by them are, for lack of a better word, a d-bag. I guess that's just a vibe or an EQ thing as I cannot actually really logically explain it, but pride and arrogance are generally not admirable traits.

I recall that when my high school class was going through the college application cycle, these traits and their corresponding connotations were ever-present. There were instances where I knew fellow students who would act like it was the end of the world to go to a decent, well-respected school that was not considered "elite", and others who would be cocky and overconfident about their abilities and what they would achieve. Even though generally this information would be relayed with disdain, I don't think I ever thought that they were <i>unfounded</i> - I could see myself making similar statements with minor adjustments.

Now, I am not trying to give myself an excuse and say that everyone from my environment ended up to be an arrogant prick like myself, nor do I think that I actually exude that energy on a day-to-day basis towards others. I'm just doing a bit of reminiscing. I do think that while I am not a completely deplorable person (although it certainly would be easier to subscribe to that line of thinking), my pride has continually and subconsciously affected the way I view my life and other people, and that in moments of stress and anxiety I become overconfident in my own views and untrusting and discouraging of others' views. This is what I hope to change.

I think I just need to be more understanding and flexible. There's no scientific way about it, I just need to humble myself and think of myself less (which I admit is no easy task and will likely take months if not years of intentional effort). When I feel like I can be of use to the other person, I can offer advice and solutions, but when I feel like it is more important to maintain the relationship and be cognizant of the person's feelings (which usually is the case for people closer to me), I need to be able to discern if I should offer emotional or logical support and be very careful of how I deliver the logical support as to not undermine the purpose in the first place: to assist the other person. I cannot truly help someone if they do not feel like I am on their side, like I am rooting for them.

Am I simply trying to fix and solve myself, or am I really rooting for myself? Can I let myself make mistakes, even the mistakes that cost me everything? Right now, I still don't see how I can ever become that person. But I think the belief is enough. Belief in myself, and belief in Him that is greater than me, greater than all my flaws and regrets.
