===
date: August 5, 2026
title: To Live Is To Be Spent
time: 3:00 AM
===
The bitter truth that I have come to face is that there is no happy ending for the jaded and pessimistic. I can avoid heartbreak and disappointment by not expecting that things could ever turn around for me, but will I be happy if I end up being right? When I go to sleep forever, will I go with a smug, satisfied expression on my face, thinking about how life never got the best of me?

What I want to know is: is it that bad to yearn until the bitter end? To really believe and hope that this life can mean something beyond the facade of its cruel and unwavering calculus? Will I be crushed if I end up being wrong? As they lower me into the grave, will I be wishing I had not tried so hard trying to achieve and experience the things I wanted most in the time I was given? That I should have given up at some point and spared myself the pain of longing for what I didn’t get?

Will I look back on all my years and say, "It was fun"?

What does it matter at the end of it all if your heart is in mint condition, with not so much as a scratch, or if it is bruised and battered, weathered with countless permanent scars from leaping and falling? It will not beat for another second, will never again experience the searing pain of loss and regret, or the overflowing euphoria of achievement after years of waiting, or the slow melancholy of nostalgia on a flight home for the holidays, or the tender warmth of being fully seen and held in a lover’s embrace. It is only now that it can still feel all the good and bad things there are to feel.

But to be honest, I am tired. There are days that I cannot fathom lifting my head up and continuing down this long journey. Even though there are countless things that could happen. Even though there are countless things I could see and do. I could exhaust all of my life savings and see every corner of the world. I could try connecting with people and watch them come and go, again and again for years and years, and never ever surpass even a small village’s worth of experienced relationships. In theory there should be no end to the amazing (and terrifying) things I could experience in the remaining 50 or so years of my life. In reality, however, there seem to be so many strings everywhere. Things that keep me down and make me feel like the infinite possibilities in my head are perpetually collapsing down to one sad, hopeless existence.

When I write these posts, oftentimes I write with an agenda. I start with a topic and come up with a few nice-sounding phrases, aim to make my main point after a few paragraphs, and eventually end on an uplifting and motivational note. But there are so many things I want to write. I want to just say what I’m thinking about and where I’m at in life, and all the things swimming through my mind as I lie awake at night. I want to write stories about love and hope and redemption and friendship. I want to try creating something that I’m actually proud of. But somehow I just keep starting things and never finishing them, as if I just have some sort of aversion to doing anything as soon as it begins to get difficult. Sometimes writing is not fun. Sometimes writing feels like the last thing I want to be doing, and the only satisfaction I get out of it is being able to say "I’m finished with this" and be able to post one more thing, one more checked box off the list of productive things to do this week, or this month, or this year.

And how many years have passed? One now since the breakup. Three since I moved to DC. Four since I graduated college. What have I done, besides tell myself the same excuses over and over again every day about how I’ll practice this tomorrow, or I’ll start seriously on this project this week? I don’t care about work or my career nearly as much as I used to, but I’m still tired after coming home for the day. Too tired to do these things that may or may not yield results - I’d rather just take the easy route and unwind. The time goes by and I have nothing to show for it. Just a bunch of money and sleepless nights.

I’m echoing all the things I used to say in the past again. But it’s not that I care that much about progress or being successful or being famous. I really don’t anymore. I’m okay if I go my entire life as an unknown, a speck of existence that once was here, that once did things and knew people, and was then forgotten. That’s fine. I know that I always have the great minimum. I’ve spent the last few years meeting great friends and doing new things and making amazing memories. I’ve learned about myself and the person I want to become, and I would like to say that I’ve become a little more like him.

The thing that I am most bothered by is that I just don’t try anymore. I don’t have the resolve to actually be diligent about achieving any of my goals in the things that I supposedly enjoy doing. I have a bad climbing day? Whatever. It’s not like I particularly care about being able to climb v6 or v7 one day. Music, the alleged heart and soul of my life, has taken a backseat for pretty much any other thing that has popped up in the last 10 years. And it’s a chore to me. I have to force myself to make time to practice longer than 15 minutes a day. I tell everyone, including myself, that I love music and my instruments, but do I really? Do my actions and attitude really reflect that? Arts and crafts, woodworking, 3D printing - all sporadic and infrequent now. I just don’t care. I don’t have the ambition to pursue a large project or try to advance to the next level of craftsmanship or skill.

I want to care. I want to try. And maybe I am just taking a long time to unlearn the way I treated myself for most of my life, and opting for the other extreme end of the spectrum. The stress and constant anxiety of beating down on myself and telling myself I am squandering my time and missing the opportunities of life are (mostly) gone. I don’t want to go back there again. I don’t want to feel the sudden dread and discouragement that would inevitably creep its way into my day and ruin the most mundane and inoffensive of moments. But at the same time, I think I’ve had my fill of whatever I’ve been doing for the past few months - putting in the bare minimum at work, using the extra time and mental space to be present and give myself room to be patient and do interesting things once in a while.

Maybe in getting rid of all my ambition to avoid stress and burnout, I have inadvertently removed my ability to feel passionate and enjoy things. I’m not really sure, to be honest. One would expect that without the pressures of having to perform at a certain level or achieve a certain outcome, I would naturally go and re-explore what it means to do things purely for the enjoyment and satisfaction of doing them. That’s what I thought was going to happen, too. But it’s not really panning out that way. Instead I am just doing nothing. And nothing is fine. Nothing is great. But again - I’ve had my fill. I want to feel something again. I want to be spent. I don’t really know exactly what’s going on in my life. I think I am scared to open myself up to the possibility of falling and getting hurt again, whether that’s in my social circle, my ambitions, or any of the things that I genuinely want to care about. I’m still too used to staying in my comfort zone and sticking with what I know I can manage. But as I have been quoting from Master Shifu lately: "If you only do what you can do, you will never be more than you are now."

I can’t put this off any longer; if I stop here and decide that I should come back and add more later this post may likely never be released. It’s 3 AM and I have work tomorrow. Just another day in the life I have found myself to be living. And I know that’s fine. The life I have been given is a great one, even despite everything. But it is still mine, and mine to live. Mine to try to change, even if I fail. Trying is what matters. Playing the game is what matters. I know that. I just can’t seem to do it yet. Maybe soon. Hopefully soon. Apologies for the rambling and odd tone and structure. Reading this back over, it really does seem like the work of a maniac. Can you tell I wrote the first half a couple months ago and came back to haphazardly finish it in the middle of the night today? I need to get it together, as always. The ebb and flow never stops.

If you take anything away from this, take the first four paragraphs. It is and has been fun, in its own special way.

- Sam