===
date: August 22, 2026
title: Outside the Castle Walls
time: 2:57 AM
===
I am going back to college this fall, although probably not exactly in the way that you’d imagine. Instead of enrolling in Stanford’s presitigious MSCS program (which I did not get into) or embarking on a wild career change into law or medicine, I will be attending weekly half-hour trumpet lessons at Northern Virginia Community College for a grand total of one unit.

In addition to committing to learning an instrument that I currently am only capable of making unpleasant screeching sounds on, I have also been finding lots of other things that I am not good at: somehow I’ve reverted to not being able to do most v4s at my local climbing gym, and it only takes a couple of open gym volleyball sessions filled with high schoolers to determine that I am far worse at that sport than I could have ever imagined. I even made pork tenderloin yesterday and the outer edge of the roast was so unbelievably dry that it actually made me sad to sit there and chew on my disappointing results.

I have never been good with being bad, as you can probably tell if you go back and read some (or most) of my entries from high school and college. I can’t imagine anyone else feels particularly good about it either, but I feel like it has prevented me from being truly open to finding out just how vast the breadth and depth is of every possible skill. For the longest time I have kept my radius small, only focusing on things that are easily within grasp for me. If I hear a cool piano progression or guitar riff, I’ll spend fifteen minutes or so trying to figure it out. Sometimes I get it down pretty easily, in which case I congratulate myself on a job well done. But if it’s harder and seems beyond my current capabilities, I sort of just give up on it. I don’t make a note to try and work on it the next day, or try to figure out what mechanics and skills I need to learn to make progress - I just abandon the effort entirely. I have kept up these walls for God knows how long, just pretending that there is nothing out there, nothing else that I cannot do, and no greater heights to reach.

Of course, this is a bit of an overexaggeration. I know full well that there are better guitarists than me, smarter and more successful individuals than me, and so on and so forth. But it’s just the way that I’ve carried myself in these aspects and the way that I’ve treated my hobbies and skills that lead me to believe that somewhere inside of me, I really am afraid to find out just how bad I am at the things that I pride myself in being proficient at. I haven’t put in the work to continue pushing my limits, and I am not quite sure whether to attribute that to sheer laziness or some other part of the convoluted relationship I have with my hobbies.

That’s really all there is to say on this matter, to be frank. I have not done the work. I have not seriously practiced the same song for days on end and crossed over an impassable bridge. I have not had the diligence to carve out time in my week to consistently work out, play piano, try to figure out how to start a marketing campaign for my side project, or anything. The only thing that I can say for sure that I consistently do is play Tetris and watch YouTube videos, both activities that I default to when I feel that nagging feeling turning me away from a serious practice session or anything that has a remote chance of failure. Ironically, I also have not improved my Tetris performance in years, even though I spend hours playing the game every day. This is due to the fact that I use it to turn off my brain and pass the time instead of actually making the effort to practice different skills and strategies.

The question I’ve been pondering - do I really want it? How badly do I want to be good at guitar, and piano, and bass, and trumpet, and climbing, and pickleball, and volleyball, and badminton, and cooking, and writing, and woodworking, and graphic design, and everything? Am I just trying to get myself to do something that is fundamentally against my desires? Is staying where I am and passing my time with Tetris and YouTube and other consumable media what I actually really want to do? Is it not in my true interest to strive for improvement?

I am sure I know the real answer to the main question and all of its follow-ups, and I have for as long as I’ve been alive. I love music. I think it would make me incredibly happy to be able to play any of my instruments at a much higher level, to be able to perform songs that I enjoy at a level that I am proud of, that I would want people to find the same joy in listening to my music that I do from listening to others’. It would be great to be more consistent in my cooking, to be confident that I can execute a dinner party without any mistakes, to learn more and more about what other types of things I can try to make. I have fun playing sports with my friends, and even more fun when things get competitive in a good skill matchup. These are all things that I want, to various degrees.

However, this is not what really matters. The smoker can talk on and on about how much he wants to quit, and how nice it would be to stay sober. Anyone can wax poetic about how much a million dollars would change their life. It’s no secret that being good at something is desirable. I desire it. I desire it a lot, to be honest. I’ve been thinking about it almost every day for the past ten years. It doesn’t matter. It hasn’t made the difference. What makes the difference is whether I am willing to put in the effort, to sacrifice the comfort and frequency of my “safe” activities and replace it with an equivalent amount of drills and woodshedding, where 5% of the time is spent feeling good about the skill, 94% of the time is spent repeating the same task I am incapable of, and the final 1% a euphoric feeling of accomplishment and unlocking a tangible improvement. And after that moment of triumph fades, will I have the diligence to start the cycle all over again? Instead of playing the new song and feeling good about myself over and over again until the song is no longer new to me, will I deliberately go out and seek the next challenge? Do I want it that much?

I do not know the exact extent to my passion for the various crafts that I exercise. What I do know is that I have far too easily let them be overtaken by a multitude of excuses and roadblocks. I don’t know what to practice - I’ll just sit there for a few minutes and then give up. I’m not sure how to get started with this - I guess I just won’t do it. The limited hours I have after work suddenly dwindle away, and I’m left with a halfhearted few minutes of mustering out whatever I can before jumping into bed and skipping to the next day. I have not tried: at least I have not *really* tried. If I was really trying, I’d question these excuses. How do I figure out what to practice next? What resources can I expend to get some direction? What can I sacrifice? I suppose the extreme fear of mine is that I would be banging my head against the wall and wasting time making zero progress until the day I die, and that that time would be better spent not trying, because trying invites failure, and failure is a waste of my precious time.

In reality, failure is not a waste of time. One could argue that it objectively is, but the truth is that failure is inevitable - if it were not, then I would be able to do everything as I am right now. But I cannot. The traditional counter-logic is that the necessary failure grants you wisdom and experience to one day be successful, and that all the failures along the way are part of the eventual success. I’d like to go further and say that even if success is never achieved, the failure is still worth something. It is the product of willpower and endeavor, of time spent in devotion, despite the risk of pain and fruitlessness. It is the trying that counts.

I could probably write about this forever, regurgitating these points with different synonyms and closely related analogies. There is more I’d like to jot down about my aversion to assistance and instruction, and how my relationship with finances and resources has contributed to my obsession with doing things the hardest possible way.

I’ll end here with this: I am not where I want to be. The details may be figured out as time goes on; the habits will require persistence and tenacity to build. But I do not want to stay here any longer. I’ve always been scared that if I truly give my all, it might be for nothing, and I would find out that I am bounded by a lower ceiling than I had thought all these years. I’m still afraid of that outcome. I just can’t let it hold me back from exploring anymore. If I find myself back here once again, caught in a routine of excuses and indifference, I'll try again to break out of it. I can't stop trying. I have to expend my effort. I have to spend my life.

- Sam